Create a new Vehicle
NOTE You must click "Save" in order to see the total points.


Unit Details
Name
Faction
Add an image for this unit
drop a file
Attach a file From your computerNingún archivo seleccionado
Statistics
Quality

Rabble
Resolve

Reluctant
Vehicle type

Light Transport
Vehicle movement

Wheeled
Front Armour
Side Armour
Rear Armour
# of crew
Carrying capacity
Properties
Select Properties
Advanced Targeting System: Vehicles with advanced targeting systems add +2 to all Fire Effect rolls against other vehicles and hard targets (bunkers, buildings, etc).
AI Controlled: This vehicle has an artificial intelligence (AI) running it and so has no crew. These AI systems are most commonly installed in heavy tanks and walkers, but can exist in any vehicle.

An AI Vehicle is completely immune to any morale effects and when it is “damaged” it can re-roll one of the dice of its Quality Test to recover from damage. An AI Controlled vehicle can only be of Steady Resolve.

Also, an AI controlled vehicle has zero crew and can fire weapons as if it has an number of crew equal to its total number of weapons.
Alternate Fire Weapons (2): Choose two weapons on this vehicle, they are all part of a single weapon with multiple fire modes. All the chosen weapons now count as a single weapon and only one can be fired in a turn (and only requires one crew to fire).

Example - Multi Use Beam Cannon: A hover tank is equipped with a Laser cannon that can be altered to fire either in one focused beam, or multiple less powerful shots. This would be represented by adding a “heavy beam cannon“ and a “chain gun” then taking this trait. Both of those weapons are now considered a single weapon.
Alternate Fire Weapons (3): Choose three weapons on this vehicle, they are all part of a single weapon with multiple fire modes. All the chosen weapons now count as a single weapon and only one can be fired in a turn (and only requires one crew to fire).

Example - Multi Use Beam Cannon: A hover tank is equipped with a Laser cannon that can be altered to fire either in one focused beam, or multiple less powerful shots. This would be represented by adding a “heavy beam cannon“ and a “chain gun” then taking this trait. Both of those weapons are now considered a single weapon.
Amphibious: Suitably equipped vehicles can cross water at half Cautious speeds. Any firing while in the water suffers a -3 Fire Effect penalty.
Close - In Defense System: Only fully armoured and enclosed vehicles may take this upgrade which launches a canister shot a few meters above the vehicle before it detonates. The resultant blast does no harm to the vehicle, but any troops nearby will be targeted.

Treat this as a Blast Weapon with a radius of 4” centered on the vehicle. Any unit within this radius will be hit by the blast. For each unit affected, work out any potential casualties by continuing with the rules to Determine Strike Effect.
Command Vehicle: Only a single vehicle may have this attribute and if used, no infantry figure may take the HQ trait. Once per turn, any one unit may re-roll a failed command response test. In addition, this vehicle can take a Command action to call for Indirect Artillery Fire.
Electronic Countermeasures: ECMs can be fitted to vehicles to negate the effectiveness of advanced targeting systems. As such, a vehicle equipped with an Advanced Targeting System receives no benefit from that system if the target is equipped with ECM.
Energy screen: Vehicles with this trait roll 1d6 for every hit they suffer. On a result of 5+ the hit is negated.
Fast: The vehicle adds +2" to Cautious and Standard movement rates.
Fixed Mount (1): Select one weapon on this vehicle, that weapon can only fire in one direction (front, left side, right side and rear).
Fixed Mount (2): Select one weapon on this vehicle, that weapon can only fire in one direction (front, left side, right side and rear).
Fixed Mount (3): Select one weapon on this vehicle, that weapon can only fire in one direction (front, left side, right side and rear).
Forward Observer: The vehicle is equipped with special sighting and communications gear linked to an artillery unit. This vehicle can take a Command action to call for Indirect Artillery Fire.
Improved Weapons Control: An improved weapons control system allows a single crew to fire two weapons instead of the single weapon normally allowed.
Jump Jets: Walkers only - may move 10" ignoring obstacles up to 6" heigh instead of moving and firing normally.
Linked Weapons: Sometimes two are better than one! This could be two machine guns welded together or dual chain guns linked with sophisticated targeting equipment.

When picking this trait, choose one of the weapons on this vehicle, when firing this weapon roll 2D6 and pick the highest result (as you would for infantry).

This trait can be taken multiple times, each time it applies to a different weapon.
Medevac: The vehicle and crew are equipped to handle and transport casualties. When in contact with an infantry squad with casualties the vehicle may take a recover wounded action as if it had two aid teams. Squads may leave wounded with a Medevac vehicle without affecting their resolve.
Reactive Armour: The armour of this vehicle is designer to disrupt the energy of anti-tank weapons. When a vehicle with reactive armour is fired upon by a weapon with an AP of 1 or greater, the player who owns the vehicle can choose to force the attacker to re-roll his damage dice.
Reserves: This unit can be held in reserve, and then deployed once the battle has started (as per the Reserves advanced rule).
Slow: The vehicle suffers a -2" penalty to Cautious and Standard movement rates.
Smoke: Any vehicle equipped with smoke may lay down one smoke screen per game. Follow the rules for Smoke Grenades, except that the two points which mark the ends of the smoke screen can be placed anywhere the vehicle can see to shoot. As with infantry squads, the vehicle can Shoot (lay down the smoke) before they Move.
Stealth: Some vehicles use a combination of shape, advanced materials and chameleon coverings to avoid detection and foil targeting systems. Therefore, any shooting directed at a vehicle with stealth capabilities is resolved at one range band beyond the distance indicated.
Supercharged: The vehicle adds +4" to Cautious and Standard movement rates.
Under-Powered: The vehicle suffers a -4" penalty to Cautious and Standard movement rates.
Weapon Stabilizer: Vehicles with stabilized main weapons may fire when moving at standard speeds. All other modifiers apply as usual.
Weapons
Select Weapons
Auto Cannon - Heavy
Auto Cannon - Light
Beam - Heavy
Beam - Light
Cannon - Heavy
Cannon - Light
Cannon - Medium
Chain Gun - Heavy
Chain Gun - Light
General Purpose MG
Heavy MG
Missile Launcher
Morter - Heavy
Morter - Light
Mounted Flamethrower
Rail Gun - Heavy
Rail Gun - Light
Sniper Rifle
